# Articles & related Reports

## Papers

[Using the FRAME Architecture for Planning Integrated Intelligent Transport Systems (EATIS 2009)](https://files.austriatech.at/f/3593c1d572bb4e868c09/?dl=1)

The potential complexity and size of Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) requires that they be implemented through a systems engineering approach based on the use of ITS Architectures. These enable a high level set of “views” of the proposed ITS to be obtained early in its lifecycle so that many of the details and implications can be checked and, if necessary, changed at significantly less cost than if the need for a change is only found when some/all of the development work has been completed. The FRAME Architecture has been created for use as the starting point for any deployment of ITS, and a methodology for its use has been developed. This methodology is now supported by two FRAME Architecture Tools. The FRAME Architecture is currently being extended to include cooperative systems.

[Using the FRAME Architecture for Planning Integrated Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS Spain 2009)](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5973610/figures)

The potential complexity and size of Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS)
 requires that they be implemented through a system engineering approach
 based on the use of ITS Architectures. These enable a high level set of
 “views” of the proposed ITS implementation to be obtained early in its 
lifecycle so that many of the details and implications can be checked 
and, if necessary, changed at significantly less cost than if the need 
for a change is only found when some/all of the development work has 
been completed. The FRAME Architecture has been created for use as the 
starting point for any deployment of ITS, and a methodology for its use 
has been developed. This methodology is now supported by two FRAME 
Architecture Tools. The FRAME Architecture is currently being extended 
to include cooperative systems.

[Using the European ITS Framework Architecture (ITS World Congress 2006)](https://files.austriatech.at/f/0a5254dc83cd41d0a8c2/?dl=1)

This paper describes a use that has been made of the European ITS 
Framework Architecture, and the FRAME Browsing and Selection Tools, in a
 project to create a regional ITS Architecture. It describes the 
processes that were used, from the definition of the Stakeholder 
Aspirations to the creation of the descriptions of the physical entities
 and the links that are needed to fulfil them. Examples of the results 
are presented, together with an evaluation of them. The evaluation 
confirmed both the usefulness of the resulting regional ITS 
Architecture, and the effectiveness of the FRAME methodology to create 
it.

[Different Types of ITS Architectures and their Uses (ITS World Congress 2005)](https://files.austriatech.at/f/dd252dc5049b499e86e4/?dl=1)

This paper looks at how one should choose the best type of Architecture to create for an ITS deployment. There are three main Architecture types, comprising Framework, Defined and Specific. They all contain the User Needs and the functionality supporting them, but they differ in what else they comprise. A Framework ITS Architecture contains guidance for the creation of the other outputs and is most suitable for (inter-)national ITS Architectures. Both the Defined and the Specific ITS Architectures contain the actual created outputs. A Defined Architecture is most suitable for regional ITS Architectures. A Specific ITS Architecture only supports one or two Services and is best used by manufacturers as the basis for their product ranges. The choice of which ITS Architecture to create depends on the starting point, plus how and where it will be used.

[How Can an ITS Architecture be Created – A European View (ITS World Congress 2004)](https://files.austriatech.at/f/a75f2539996e4d21beeb/?dl=1)

This paper provides an overview of the ITS architecture creation process and how the results can be used in ITS development and deployment. It starts by looking at the Stakeholders and their rôle in the ITS architecture creation process. The results of the process are then described and their use in ITS deployment explained. The use of the two basic types of ITS Architecture is then explained, and the paper finishes with a discussion on how Multi-modal ITS Architectures can be created.

[Why Do You Need an ITS Architecture – European and National Perspectives (ITS World Congress 2004)](https://files.austriatech.at/f/f329d4ed4f4a4f188c12/?dl=1)

ITS is becoming more complex and difficult to produce and deploy successfully. One way of alleviating this situation is to create an ITS Architecture. This provides a top-level framework that contains the minimum top-level assumptions necessary. Once created, an ITS Architecture can be used to produce a variety of management products to guide the future ITS deployment. An architectural approach provides benefits for the ITS Stakeholders, with End Users, Authorities and Operators as well as Manufacturers and Suppliers all gaining from a long term planned approach. An ITS deployment without an Architecture is likely to be a “technology island” with no links, and little in common, with the other “islands”. A growing number of European nations are now creating their own ITS Architectures, based on the KAREN/FRAME Architecture, which will assist them to provide ITS services.

[Configuration Management in the European ITS Framework Architecture Environment (ITS World Congress 2003)](https://files.austriatech.at/f/a6686c8ec8c14eb1ad7f/?dl=1)

This paper provides the background and description of the Configuration 
Management practices being implemented by the FRAME Project for the 
European ITS Framework Architecture. The challenges that this presents 
arise from the flexibility of use that is built into the Framework 
Architecture and the freedom that its Users have to modify it when 
creating their own ITS Architectures. Therefore Configuration Management
 practices have been developed for both the Framework Architecture 
maintainers and its Users.

[Involving Stakeholders in ITS Architecture Creation (ITS World Congress 2003)](https://files.austriatech.at/f/037935879d16488b8da8/?dl=1)

Part of the planning process for the deployment of integrated ITS services should be the creation of an ITS Architecture. This architecture will contain the solutions to the problems and aspirations of the various stakeholders. This paper describes a process, based on experience, for use by ITS architects to capture the Stakeholders Aspirations and then create the corresponding User Needs. It highlights the distinction between a problem and its solutions, and also provides advice for how to write, structure and use the User Needs.

## Other ITS Architecture Reports

[Handledning för Systemarkitekturarbete inom / Handbook for ITS Architecture (2004)](https://files.austriatech.at/f/12b3b3b02af54deaa17d/?dl=1)

These guidelines provide advice for Transport Telematics projects on the development and assessment of their system architectures, and suggestions are made as to the possible contents of their System Architecture Deliverables.

[CONVERGE – Guidelines for the Development and Assessment of ITS Architectures (February 1998)](https://files.austriatech.at/f/20681d5c63c540a79007/?dl=1)

This Framework describes a process to analysis the safety hazards associated with an ITS and to assess their risk; to identify safety requirements that will reduce the risk to an acceptable level; and to demonstrate that the safety requirements have been applied correctly. It brings together the topics of Functional System Safety, Traffic Safety and Human Machine Interaction. The Framework draws heavily on the results of earlier EC funded projects undertaken in the FP2 DRIVE I, FP3 DRIVE II and FP4 EC research programmes, in particular CODE, DRIVE Safely, EMCATT, HINT, HOPES and PASSPORT, and the UK SafeIT project MISRA.

## Other Related Reports

[UTMC22 – Framework for the Development and Assessment of Safety-Related (Inter-)Urban Traffic Management Systems (March 2000)](https://files.austriatech.at/f/cf1d41ab7d2a46dfa948/?dl=1)

This Framework describes a process to analysis the safety hazards associated with an ITS and to assess their risk; to identify safety requirements that will reduce the risk to an acceptable level; and to demonstrate that the safety requirements have been applied correctly. It brings together the topics of Functional System Safety, Traffic Safety and Human Machine Interaction. The Framework draws heavily on the results of earlier EC funded projects undertaken in the FP2 DRIVE I, FP3 DRIVE II and FP4 EC research programmes, in particular CODE, DRIVE Safely, EMCATT, HINT, HOPES and PASSPORT, and the UK SafeIT project MISRA.

## Other Articles

[Things to Make and Do from Thinking Highways Vol 5 No 4, Nov/Dec 2010](https://www.ibtta.org/sites/default/files/documents/Thinking%20Highways%20The%20New%20Normal.pdf)

This article explores innovative projects and activities within the intelligent transportation systems (ITS) sector, highlighting practical implementations and creative solutions to common transportation challenges.

[A Particularly Common Goal from Thinking Highways Vol 5 No 4, Nov/Dec 2010](https://highways.dot.gov/public-roads/past-issues/years)

This piece discusses the shared objectives among various stakeholders in the transportation industry, emphasizing collaboration and unified efforts to improve transportation infrastructure and services.

[Using the European ITS Framework Architecture (ITS World Congress 2006)](https://trid.trb.org/view/843370)

This paper describes the application of the European ITS Framework Architecture in creating regional ITS architectures. It details the processes and tools used, and evaluates the effectiveness of the resulting architectures.

[“Many Languages, One Voice” from Thinking Highways Vol 6 No 1, Mar/Apr 2011](https://www.mlovdc.org/programs)

This article highlights the importance of multilingual communication in the ITS sector, advocating for inclusive practices that ensure all stakeholders, regardless of language, can participate effectively in transportation planning and operations.

[“Drawing Inspiration” from Thinking Highways (North America), Nov/Dec 2010](https://www.slideshare.net/slideshow/thinking-highways-congestion-412-53837346/53837346)

This article focuses on innovative design and planning strategies in the North American ITS landscape, drawing inspiration from successful projects and highlighting best practices for future developments.