The following are terms of a legal agreement between you and the FRAME Forum. By accessing, browsing and/or using this web site, you acknowledge that you have read, understood, and agree, to be bound by these terms and to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. If you do not agree to these terms, please do not use this web site.

The contents of this web site may be changed or updated without notice by the FRAME Forum at any time. This extends to any of the documents that can be downloaded from pages in the web site.

The FRAME Forum assumes no responsibility for the accuracy of the information that is provided by this web site and the use of such information is at the recipient’s own risk. The FRAME Forum provides no assurances that any reported problems may be resolved with the use of any information that the FRAME Forum provides. By furnishing information, the FRAME Forum does not grant any licenses to any copyrights, patents or any other intellectual property rights.

The FRAME Forum does not want to receive confidential or proprietary information from you through our web site. Except under the terms of a direct contractual agreement, any information or material sent to the FRAME Forum will be deemed NOT to be confidential. By sending the FRAME Forum any information or material, you grant the FRAME Forum an unrestricted, irrevocable license to use, reproduce, display, perform, modify, transmit and distribute those materials or information, and you also agree that the FRAME Forum is free to use any ideas, concepts, know-how or techniques that you send us for any purpose. However, the FRAME Forum will not release your name or otherwise publicize the fact that you submitted materials or other information to us unless: (a) we obtain your permission to use your name; or (b) we first notify you that the materials or other information you submit to a particular part of this site will be published or otherwise used with your name on it; or (c) we are required to do so by law.

The views and opinions expressed in the “Blog” section of this web site do not necessarily reflect the views of the FRAME Forum, its members or its sponsors.

The FRAME Forum makes no representations whatsoever about any other web site, which you may access through this one. When you access a third-party web site, even one that may contain the FRAME Forum logo, please understand that it is independent from the FRAME Forum, and that the FRAME Forum has no control over the content on that web site. In addition, a link to a third-party web site does not mean that the FRAME Forum endorses or accepts any responsibility for the content, or the use, of such web site. It is up to you to take precautions to ensure that whatever you select for your use is free of such items as viruses, worms, trojan horses and other items of a destructive nature.

IN NO EVENT WILL THE FRAME FORUM BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR OTHER CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES FOR ANY USE OF THIS WEB SITE, OR ON ANY OTHER HYPER LINKED WEB SITE, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY LOST PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF PROGRAMS OR OTHER DATA ON YOUR INFORMATION HANDLING SYSTEM OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF THE FRAME FORUM IS EXPRESSLY ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. ALL INFORMATION IS PROVIDED BY THE FRAME FORUM ON AN “AS IS” BASIS ONLY. THE FRAME FORUM PROVIDES NO REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY AND NONINFRINGEMENT.

The FRAME Forum may at any time revise these terms by updating this posting. By using this web site, you agree to be bound by any such revisions and should therefore periodically visit this page to determine the then current terms to which you are bound.